## Tips for Testing with Medusa

### General

- **Use multiple testing modes:** Medusa supports property testing, assertion testing, and optimization testing. Use a combination of modes to thoroughly test your contracts.
- **Write clear and concise tests:** Your tests should be easy to read and understand. Avoid complex logic or unnecessary code.
- **Monitor gas consumption:** Medusa can track gas consumption during testing. Use this information to identify areas where your contracts can be optimized.

### Property Testing

- **Choose meaningful properties:** The properties you test should be important invariants of your contract.

### Assertion Testing

- **Filtering inputs:**
  The easiest way to filter inputs is by adding a require statement as a pre-condition:

```solidity
function test(uint256 amount) public {
  require(amount < 1000);
}
```

Whenever the condition set by the require statement is not met, the test reverts and a new input is generated. This results in many generated transactions being reverted which slows down the fuzzer and wastes inputs. Using `%` is more efficient for filtering input values as it ensures that no input generated by the fuzzer is wasted. Here's how to define a minimum and maximum range:

```solidity
function test(uint256 amount) public {
  amount = MIN_AMOUNT + (amount % (MAX_AMOUNT - MIN_AMOUNT));
  // ...
}
```

### Additional Tips

- **Use a configuration file:** A configuration file allows you to customize Medusa's behavior and specify additional testing parameters.
- **Use corpus and coverage information to improve the effectiveness of your fuzzing campaigns:** Corpus and coverage information can be used to improve the effectiveness of your fuzzing campaigns by providing feedback on the quality of the test inputs. For more on how to enable coverage collection, visit the [project configuration chapter](../project_configuration/fuzzing_config.md#coverageenabled)
- **Review the test results carefully:** Medusa provides detailed test results and execution stack trace. Make sure to review them carefully to identify any potential issues.
